---
author: Joaquin Rapela
date: 2023-02-08
---

# Attendees

- Goncalo Lopes
- Bruno Cruz
- Joaquin Rapela

# Topics covered

- what technology should we use to integrate machine learning applications
  developed in programming languages like Python, R. Julia. or Matlab into
  Bonsai?

  - Bonsai uses Python.NET to interface with Python.

  - ZeroMQ seem a good option to integrate applications developed in multiple
    languages.
 
- we debated on the tradeof between implementing ML algorithms in Bonsai/C# and
  using implementations in other programming languages. Joaquin suggested to
  implement in Bonsai/C# popular ML algorithms, and using implementations in
  other programming languages for less popular algorithms.

- Goncalo and Bruno suggested to run a Bonsai conference soon (e.g., by the end
  of 2023). Joaquin prefers to first focus on giving the first steps in the
  BonsaiML project (six months?), and later focus on the conference. He does not
  wants to get distracted during the first six months of the project on the
  conference organization.

- Bruno and Goncalo suggested using the ONNX framework?

- Bruno and Goncalo suggested using infer.NET, which is part of ML.NET for the
  ML functionality that will be implemented in C#

- Joaquin mentioned [rxinfer](https://biaslab.github.io/rxinfer-website/) an
  interesting tool for reactive message passing.

- Goncalo mentioned the idea of reactive hypothesis testing, which I did not
  completely understood.

# Next steps

- Goncalo, Bruno and Joaquin: use Python.NET to integrate into Bonsai a Python
  code developed by Joaquin to estimate the parameters of a linear dynamical
  system using the Kalman filter.

- Joaquin: asses the pros/cons and feasibility of integrating
  [rxinfer](https://biaslab.github.io/rxinfer-website/), written in Julia, into
  Bonsai.


